# Adaptive CCS: Adaptive Clustered Compressive Sensing
This repository provides the adaptive clustered compressive sensing algorithm. The MEMS-based (Micro Electronical Mechanical System) LiDAR provides precise point cloud datasets for rock fragment surfaces. However, there is more vibrational noise in the MEMS-based LiDAR signals, which cannot guarantee that the reconstructed point cloud data is not distorted with a high compression ratio. Many studies illustrate that wavelet-based clustered compressive sensing can improve reconstruction precision. Conveniently, the k-means clustering algorithm is employed to obtain clusters. However, estimating meaningful k-value (i.e., the number of clusters) is challenging. An excessive quantity of clusters is not necessary for dense point clouds, as this leads to elevated consumption of memory and CPU resources. For sparser point clouds, fewer clusters lead to more distortions, and excessive clusters lead to more voids in reconstructed point clouds. This study proposes a local clustering method to determine the number of clusters closer to the actual number based on the observation distances GMM (Gaussian Mixture Model) and density peaks.

This algorithm consists of two fundational algorithms: One is the automatic k-value determination algorithm based on observation distances GMM and density peaks. The other is clustered compressive sensing algorithm based on ADMM-BP.

## 1. Automatic k-value determination algorithm
The source codes of this algorithm is located at "ClusteringDensityPeaks" folder. Firstly, we iteratively calculate the PDF of observation distances, which the iterative maximum number of components is set to 100. The optimal GMM (Gaussian Mixed Model) is determined by the minimum AIC value. Secondly, the density peaks algorithm is employed to find out potential cluster centers. Finally, a second-order difference algorithm remove all redundant cluster centers. Fig 1 shows the PDF of the optimal GMM in Winequality-White dataset of KEEL repository (https://sci2s.ugr.es/keel/category.php?cat=clas). Fig 2 Shows decision graphs based on density peaks.


